add doc for smooth upgrade (#13663)
pingcap/docs: smooth-upgrade-tidb.md

---
title: TiDB Smooth Upgrade
summary: This document introduces the smooth upgrade feature of TiDB, which supports upgrading TiDB clusters without manually canceling DDL operations.
---

# TiDB Smooth Upgrade

> **Warning:**
>
> Smooth upgrade is still an experimental feature.

This document introduces the smooth upgrade feature of TiDB, which supports upgrading TiDB clusters without manually canceling DDL operations.

Starting from v7.1.0, when you upgrade TiDB to a higher version, TiDB supports smooth upgrade. This feature removes the limitations during the upgrade process and provides a more user-friendly upgrade experience. This feature is enabled by default and cannot be disabled.

## Feature introduction

> Before the smooth upgrade feature is introduced, there are the following limitations on DDL operations during the upgrade process (see the *warning* section in [Upgrade TiDB Using TiUP](/upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md#upgrade-tidb-using-tiup)):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before the smooth upgrade feature is introduced, there are the following limitations on DDL operations during the upgrade process (see the *Warning* content in [Upgrade TiDB Using TiUP](/upgrade-tidb-using-tiup.md#upgrade-tidb-using-tiup)):
```

- Running DDL operations during the upgrade process might cause undefined behavior in TiDB.

> - Upgrading TiDB during the DDL operation might cause undefined behavior in TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Upgrading TiDB during the DDL operations might cause undefined behavior in TiDB.
```

> After the smooth upgrade feature is introduced, the upgrade process is no longer subject to the above limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the smooth upgrade feature is introduced, the upgrade process is no longer subject to the preceding limitations.
```

During the upgrade process, TiDB automatically performs the following operations without user intervention:

1. Pause user DDL operations.

> 2. Perform system DDL operations during the upgrade process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Perform system DDL operations for the upgrade.
```

3. Resume the paused user DDL operations.
4. Complete the upgrade.

The resumed DDL jobs are still executed in the order before the upgrade.

## Limitations

When using the smooth upgrade feature, note the following limitations.

### Limitations on user operations

> * Before upgrading, if there is a canceling DDL job in the cluster, that is, an ongoing DDL job is canceled by the user, because the job in the canceling state cannot be paused, TiDB will retry. If the retry fails, an error is reported and the upgrade is exited.

Reviewer: Before the upgrade 和后面的 Before the upgrade 对应

* During the upgrade, the following operations are not allowed:

>     * Run DDL operations on system tables (`mysql.*`, `information_schema.*`, `performance_schema.*`, `metrics_schema.*`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Run DDL operations on system tables (`mysql.*`, `information_schema.*`, `performance_schema.*`, and `metrics_schema.*`).
```

    * Manually cancel, pause, or resume DDL jobs: `ADMIN CANCEL/PAUSE/RESUME DDL JOBS job_id [, job_id] ...;`.
    * Import data.

### Limitations on tools

* During the upgrade, use of the following tools is not supported:

    * BR: BR might replicate the paused DDL jobs to TiDB. The paused DDL jobs cannot be automatically resumed, which might cause the DDL jobs to be stuck later.

>     * DM and TiCDC: If you use DM or TiCDC to import SQL to TiDB during the upgrade process, and if one of the SQL statements contains DDL operations, the import operation is blocked and undefined errors might occur.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * DM and TiCDC: If you use DM or TiCDC to import SQL statements to TiDB during the upgrade process, and if one of the SQL statements contains DDL operations, the import operation is blocked and undefined errors might occur.
```
